README.md, before:

# Hummingbird gRPC

This is an early preview / proof of concept providing gRPC support for [Hummingbird](https://github.com/hummingbird-project/hummingbird/) using [grpc-swift](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-swift).
It has not been tested with production workloads yet, so it definitely not ready for use.

## Status

Hummingbird gRPC supports:

- gRPC using Protocol Buffers over HTTP/2.
- Unary, client streaming, server streaming, and bidirectional streaming calls.
- grpc-swift Server interceptors.
- Async and SwiftNIO EventLoop based routing.
- grpc-swift generated server providers.
- proto2 and proto3.

Hummingbird gRPC does not currently support:

- gRPC using JSON or other serialization formats.
- gRPC Web (HTTP/1.1).
- Hummingbird middleware with gRPC.

## Implementation Details

Hummingbird gRPC uses the TLS [Application-Later Protocol Negotiation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-Layer_Protocol_Negotiation) to decide how to handle an incoming HTTP/2 channel. If it is negoiateed as `grpc-exp` the channel will be handled directly by grpc-swift, if it is negotiated as vanilla `h2` (HTTP/2), `http/1.1`, or as anything else it will be handled by Hummingbird.

Currently this requires forking grpc-swift to make `HTTP2ToRawGRPCServerCodec` public, and copying the `HTTP2ChannelInitializer` from HummingbirdHTTP2, it is hoped both of the changes can be made upstream, allowing Hummingbird gRPC to work with the sources directly.

## Usage

```swift
let app = HBApplication()

// Enable support for gRPC. You will need to configure TLS as well.
app.gRPC.addUpgrade(configuration: .init(), tlsConfiguration: .makeServerConfiguration())

// Add service providers that were generated by grpc-swift's protoc plugin
app.gRPC.addServiceProvider(EchoProvider())

// Alternatively, declare your gRPC endpoints directly using SwiftNIO EventLoop-based futures
app.gRPC.onUnary("echo.Echo", "Get", requestType: Echo_EchoRequest.self) { request, context in
    let response = Echo_EchoResponse.with {
        $0.text = "Swift echo get: " + request.text
    }
    return context.eventLoop.makeSucceededFuture(response)
}

// Or using async closures
app.gRPC.onUnary("echo.Echo", "Get", requestType: Echo_EchoRequest.self) { request, context async in
    Echo_EchoResponse.with {
        $0.text = "Swift echo get: " + request.text
    }
}

// Start the server like normal
app.start()
app.wait()
```

Commit message:

Added support for Swift 6 language mode

README.md, after:

# Hummingbird gRPC

This is an early preview / proof of concept providing gRPC support for [Hummingbird](https://github.com/hummingbird-project/hummingbird/) using [grpc-swift](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-swift).
It has not been tested with production workloads yet, so it definitely not ready for use.

## Status

Hummingbird gRPC supports:

- gRPC using Protocol Buffers over HTTP/2.
- Unary, client streaming, server streaming, and bidirectional streaming calls.
- grpc-swift Server interceptors.
- Async and SwiftNIO EventLoop based routing.
- grpc-swift generated server providers.
- proto2 and proto3.

>[!Note]
>From version 0.0.4 Hummingbird gRPC supports Swift 5.10+ and requires Hummingbird 2.0.0-rc.2 and grpc-swift 1.23.0+.

Hummingbird gRPC does not currently support:

- gRPC using JSON or other serialization formats.
- gRPC Web (HTTP/1.1).
- Hummingbird middleware with gRPC.

## Implementation Details

Hummingbird gRPC uses the TLS [Application-Later Protocol Negotiation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-Layer_Protocol_Negotiation) to decide how to handle an incoming HTTP/2 channel. If it is negoiateed as `grpc-exp` the channel will be handled directly by grpc-swift, if it is negotiated as vanilla `h2` (HTTP/2), `http/1.1`, or as anything else it will be handled by Hummingbird.

Currently this requires forking grpc-swift to make `HTTP2ToRawGRPCServerCodec` public, and copying the `HTTP2ChannelInitializer` from HummingbirdHTTP2, it is hoped both of the changes can be made upstream, allowing Hummingbird gRPC to work with the sources directly.

## Usage

```swift
let app = HBApplication()

// Enable support for gRPC. You will need to configure TLS as well.
app.gRPC.addUpgrade(configuration: .init(), tlsConfiguration: .makeServerConfiguration())

// Add service providers that were generated by grpc-swift's protoc plugin
app.gRPC.addServiceProvider(EchoProvider())

// Alternatively, declare your gRPC endpoints directly using SwiftNIO EventLoop-based futures
app.gRPC.onUnary("echo.Echo", "Get", requestType: Echo_EchoRequest.self) { request, context in
    let response = Echo_EchoResponse.with {
        $0.text = "Swift echo get: " + request.text
    }
    return context.eventLoop.makeSucceededFuture(response)
}

// Or using async closures
app.gRPC.onUnary("echo.Echo", "Get", requestType: Echo_EchoRequest.self) { request, context async in
    Echo_EchoResponse.with {
        $0.text = "Swift echo get: " + request.text
    }
}

// Start the server like normal
app.start()
app.wait()
```
